Approvers: the set of transactions that have a direct edge pointing towards the considered transaction.
Future set: set of all direct and indirect approvers.
Tip: a transaction that doesn't have any valid approvers.
Solid: a transaction is considered to be solid if none of the Tangle history approved by this transaction is missing.
State: the sum of all the changes introduced by all transactions that have been approved by a specific transaction recurring all the way back until the origin.
Inconsistent: a transaction is considered inconsistent if it would lead to an invalid state such as spending missing funds or double-spending.
Invalid: a transaction is considered invalid if it is either non-solid, inconsistent or it references a transaction which is too old.
Milestone: a transaction periodically issued by the Coordinator.
Confirmed: transactions directly or indirectly approved by a milestone are considered confirmed.
TPS: Transactions Per Second seen by a node.
CTPS: Confirmed Transactions per second.
Rating: represents the likelihood for a transaction to be selected as the next walking hop by the Walker algorithm.
Subgraph: the portion of the Tangle's history contained between two arbitrarily-chosen milestones.
Depth: the number of milestones we recur back in the past to build the subgraph.
Walker: the algorithm that, following pre-defined rules and biased by the transactions' rating, traverses a subgraph towards the tips.
Entrypoint: the transaction from which the walker algorithm starts his walk.
Reference: a user-defined transaction that will be used as an entrypoint for one of the two passes of the walker. this ensures that the selected tips will reference this transaction.
Tail: transaction with currentIndex == 0.
Head: transaction with currentIndex == lastIndex.
Bundle: chain of numbered transactions that need to be considered atomically for a state change; a well-formed bundle starts with a head transaction followed by a chain of approving transactions (connected by Trunk), and terminates with a tail transaction.
Blowball: a specific Tangle formation that consists of a central transaction, usually a milestone, surrounded by a large number of tips, most of which invalid.